# What this page is about.
Edden here. So as a heads up, I do not trust my own work when it comes to language. However, I happen to be participating in a hackerthon from Fri to Mon, so I intend to just place the work that I will do into this document. Ill try and segment it into different parts, and from there yall can pick out what to place where.

# Parking: What is our target audience 
Audience
Aspiring and Young Budding Physicists / General Public who have a foundation in Physics. Notably, we assume that these individuals understand basic concepts such as:
-	Basic understanding of Atoms: it contains neutrons, protons, electrons; Some atoms (notably big ones) are unstable; etc etc  
-	The existence of radiation, and an understanding that it is not a good thing to be exposed to radiation
-	That WW2 existed :shocked: OMG :shocked:

# Section 1: The Physics of it.

## What is Radiation?
(Context: How do nuclear bombs work?)

Theres 2 types of processes which can generate alot of energy, namely fusion and fission. 

Fission happens first. In fission, a large element is broken down into 2 smaller elements. In the Little Man and Fat Boy explosions, the following reaction occured:

$$^{239}_{\;94}Pu + ^1_0n \longrightarrow ^{141}_{\;56}Ba+ ^{92}_{36}Kr + 3 ^1_0 n + \textbf{ENERGY}$$

Specifically, each reaction is _triggered_ by a neutron, when it strikes a plutonium atom. This in turn, produces 3 neutrons, which can then _trigger_ other such reactions. All in all, alot of energy, and radiation, is producced in this process.

This large amount of energy is required to allow fusion to occur. In fusion, even more energy is generated by combining 2 nuclei to form a larger one.
$$
^2_1H + ^2_1H \longrightarrow ^3_2He + ^1_0n +3.27MeV
$$
$$
^2_1H + ^2_1H \longrightarrow ^3_1H + ^1_1H +4.03MeV
$$
$$
^2_1H + ^3_1H \longrightarrow ^4_2H + ^1_0H +17.59MeV
$$ 
(Source: http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/NucEne/fusion.html)
In a nuclear bomb, fusion generates more energy than fission, hence it is fusion which makes the explosion we see in Little Man and Big Boy. 

## What is Criticality 
(Context: only the plutonium sphere was held back and not used for the war)

Recall the following equation:
$$^{239}_{\;94}Pu + ^1_0n \longrightarrow ^{141}_{\;56}Ba+ ^{92}_{36}Kr + 3 ^1_0 n + \textbf{ENERGY}$$

At first glance, it seems like this reaction would be spontaneous to completion. After all, 1 neutron $\rightarrow 3 \rightarrow 9 \rightarrow \dots$. However, other factors may prevent this from being true. For one, neutrons may scatter, and not be used. On top of this, even if a proton and a Plutonium atom collide, the reaction may not even occur! The neutron may be absorbed in the Plutonium atom, or just bounce off. Hence, depending on circumstance, the products of 1 reaction (3 neutrons) may not even start any new reactions. 

More formally, we may define $k$ (the effective neutron multiplication factor), as the number of reactions triggered from the products of 1 reaction. In general, k is less than 1: thats why the plutonium did not change size much. Depending on setup, this k will change. 

However, k is important in determining how the reaction will proceed. 

If $k < 1$, the plutonium is `subcritical`. The number of reactions that occur in each “iteration” decreases (and exponentially), meaning that the reaction cannot sustain itself. 

If $k > 1$, the plutonium is `supercritical`. The number of reactions that occurs will increase exponentially. Then, as time goes on, production of neutrons and energy increases. This may be unstable, and in most cases, k will reduce until $k=1$ (or all the plutonium is used up).

Finally, $k = 1$, the sweet spot. The plutonium is called `critical`, and the number of reactions that occur at any 1 point of time should stay approximately constant. Then, this reaction should self-sustain itself while $k = 1$ and there is enough plutonium. 

## Factors affecting k
(Stealing from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Six_factor_formula)

Specifically, there are 6 factors which affects $k$.
$k = \eta f p \epsilon P_{FNL}P_{TNL} = k_{\infty} P_{FNL}P_{TNL}$

- Thermal fission factor (eta / $\eta$)
    - $\frac{\text{neutrons produced from fission}}{\text{absorption in fuel isotope}}$
    - The less neutrons get absorbed, the higher k is.
- Thermal utilization factor ($f$)
    - $\frac{\text{neutrons absorbed by the fuel isotope}}{\text{neutrons absorbed anywhere}}$
    - Among all absorbed neutrons, the more is absorbed by the fuel, the higher k is. 

Note: These 2 points should be considered together. When we consider both of these _together_, we note that these 2 terms are just accounting for protons which are absorbed. This is natural: neutrons will either be absorbed, deflected (accounted later), or undergo nuclear fission. Naturally, the less electrons are absorbed, the more will undergo nuclear fission. Neutrons absorbed by the fuel isotopes also make the Plutonium in an excited state: more likely to eject the neutron (though with a lower speed). Hence, the more neutrons are absorbed by the fuel isotope (instead of other parts of the system eg: walls), the higher k will be. 


- Resonance escape probability ($p$)
    - $\frac{\text{fission neutrons slowed to thermal energies without absorption}}{\text{toatl fission neutrons}}$
- Fast fission factor (epsilon / $\epsilon$)
    - $\frac{\text{total number of fission neutrons}}{\text{number of fission neutrons from just thermal fissions}}$


- Fast non-leakage probability ($P_{FNL}$)
    - $\frac{\text{number of fast neutrons that do not leak from reactor}}{\text{number of fast neutrons produced by all fissions}}$
    - Here, fast neutrons refers to neutrons which can trigger a reaction. 
    - The less leakage, the higher k is. 
- Thermal non-leakage probability ($P_{TNL}$)
    - $\frac{\text{number of thermal neutrons that do not leak from reactor}}{\text{number of thermal neutrons produced by all fissions}}$
    - The less leakage, the higher k is. 

Naturally, the less leakage from the reactor, the higher k is. This is intuitive: neutrons are what _limit_ the number of reactions which may occur in the first place: hence the less leakage there is from the reactor, the higher k will be.



# Section 2: The history of the demon core. 

## World War 2




In most cases, researchers are experimenting with the core at a subcritical mass. Then, dealing with the demon core would be safe, as the amount of radiation ay researcher could be exposed to could be controlled, and hence kept at safe levels. 